RJ11 Plugs, Pins
================

Look at plug from front, pins on top. Pins from left to right ...

* red, 3v3
* black, GND
* yellow, DATA
* white, GND

Parasitic vs. Powered
---------------------

I had problems repeatedly on one line; devices disappeared and were
replaced by ones that were named 00-0c4000000000.

00 is the family (for example, 28 (decimal) would be the expected
Maxim DS28E04-100) which is completely bogus. 0c4000000000 is the
serial number, which his also too even to be correct.

It looks like the sensors become unstable under certain
circumstances. I can imagine that permanent power (as opposed to
parasitic power) make the instability, if it happens, permanent as
well. At least, unplugging the power supply cured the symptom
*immediately*.

Links
-----

* https://www.maximintegrated.com/en/app-notes/index.mvp/id/148

w1-gpio
=======

https://www.maximintegrated.com/en/app-notes/index.mvp/id/148 defines
radius and weight, to give a definition as to how onewire networks
should be laid out. My network initially consisted of only one line,
exhibiting a heavy star topology. By branching off too early (ca. 1m
away the master) into another three long lines, I introduced severe
instabilities. Better to dedicate separate lines to faraway sensors
families (like oil-heater, warm-water-store, and room).

Raspberry Devicetree Overlay Situation
--------------------------------------

Read on before doing this ::

   # rpi-update

I do not know if this is necessary; I unfortunately did it before
trying if the lines below worked out of the box. Apparently this
installs a not-yet-upstream set of overlay, of which the w1-gpio
overlay know how to create multiple w1 lines.

Could well be that the following Raspbian version (the one that is
current as of this writing) supports it out of the box ... ::

  $ cat /etc/debian_version 
  9.9
  $ uname -a
  Linux heizung 4.19.57-v7+ #1244 SMP Thu Jul 4 18:45:25 BST 2019 armv7l GNU/Linux

Anyway. In `/boot/config.txt`, you write ::

   dtoverlay=w1-gpio,gpiopin=24
   dtoverlay=w1-gpio,gpiopin=25
   ...

Issues
======

Some sensors read 0 degrees, starting at some point::

    # cat /sys/bus/w1/devices/28-011432f138f9/w1_slave 
    00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 : crc=00 YES
    00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 t=0

Links

* https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?t=164059
